{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Galerina marginata
\f1\i0  is a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Species"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 species}} of poisonous {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fungus"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 fungus}} in the family {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hymenogastraceae"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Hymenogastraceae}} of the order {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agaricales"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Agaricales}}. Prior to 2001, the species 
\f0\i G.\'a0autumnalis
\f1\i0 , 
\f0\i G.\'a0oregonensis
\f1\i0 , 
\f0\i G.\'a0unicolor
\f1\i0 , and 
\f0\i G.\'a0venenata
\f1\i0  were thought to be separate due to differences in habitat and the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/viscidity"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 viscidity}} of their {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pileus_(mycology)"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 caps}}, but {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phylogenetic"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 phylogenetic}} analysis showed that they are all the same species. \
The {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basidiocarp"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 fruit bodies}} of this fungus have brown to yellow-brown caps that fade in color when drying. The {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lamella_(mycology)"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 gills}} are brownish and give a rusty {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spore_print"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 spore print}}. A well-defined membranous {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Annulus_(mycology)"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 ring}} is typically seen on the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stipe_(mycology)"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 stems}} of young specimens but often disappears with age. In older fruit bodies, the caps are flatter and the gills and stems browner. The species is a classic "{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mushroom_hunting#%22Little_brown_mushrooms%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 little brown mushroom}}"\'97a catchall category that includes all small to medium-sized, hard-to-identify brownish mushrooms, and may be easily confused with several {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edible_mushroom"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 edible}} species. \

\f0\i Galerina marginata
\f1\i0  is widespread in the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Northern_Hemisphere"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Northern Hemisphere}}, including Europe, North America, and Asia, and has also been found in Australia. It is a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wood-rotting_fungus"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 wood-rotting fungus}} that grows predominantly on decaying {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conifer"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 conifer}} wood. An extremely poisonous species, it contains the same deadly {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amatoxin"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 amatoxins}} found in the death cap ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amanita_phalloides"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\i \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Amanita phalloides}}). Ingestion in toxic amounts causes severe {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liver_damage"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 liver damage}} with vomiting, diarrhea, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypothermia"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 hypothermia}}, and eventual death if not treated rapidly. About ten poisonings have been attributed to the species now grouped as 
\f0\i G.\'a0marginata
\f1\i0  over the last century. \
}